he's using obtaining those small steps
both activist gathering video evidence
that could be normally read magazines
that are produced by and for these
cattle ranching cow slaughtering
industry but there's quite an
interesting article on veganism and
animal rights in the October issue of
Canadian cattle man magazine and it
really makes me think that maybe vegans
should pay more attention to the strange
demi-monde of publications that are
produced by and for animal exploiting
industries um the very first paragraph
of this article written and written
quite well by Greg Winslow he makes very
precise you stay english-language
throughout here the very first paragraph
remarks that various industrial lobby
groups Pro meat industry groups do send
spies to attend vegan conferences so um
you know vegans have a sort of elevated
interest in what's going on in the meat
industry and those who profit from the
meat industry have a elevated interest
in what's going on with veganism so the
article reads the animal agriculture
alliance the industry's advocacy group
in the US recently sent me a report by
two young interns who were sent to blend
in at the national animal rights
conference held outside washed in the
summer to gain some insight into the
movements plans the short answer is more
of the same as 1500 activists from 47
states and 22 countries spent three days
discussing ways to eliminate the
consumption of meat and advance the
vegan diet
so already here there are two really
interesting points implicit in this
article one is that he is claiming he is
reporting that at this major animal
rights conference the central issue was
veganism now that was not
at all just twenty years ago if you talk
to people who were involved in animal
rights 20 years ago 30 years ago and so
on all of them are aware even guys like
Gary Francie ohne who have now been
vegan for a long time all of them are
aware that veganism has gone from an
incredibly marginal position to a very
central position and now the
old-fashioned animal welfare groups face
serious demands of saying look how can
you do these kind of take care of
homeless puppies programs while ignoring
in enormous pressing ethical issues that
surround meat consumption so interesting
this this may not be fair or accurate
that's article and reporting this but if
that's true if veganism and eliminating
weakens up here were the central issues
at this animal rights conference that
tells you something profound about how
much animal rights has changed just in
the last few years really on the whole
it was a chilling summary chilling there
were workshops on everything from
organizing factory farm campaigns to the
use of drones to gather damning video
and how to garner media attention for
the cause chilling over all the Alliance
pulled five themes from this report
people need to be convinced they're
doing the greatest good for the greatest
number target young people because they
want to be different lead people's
step-by-step to veganism focus on the
public because the government and police
are not your friends vandalism is
warranted if it can gain media attention
and pressure restaurant and retailer
policies none of this is secret
information animal rights organizations
have been following this manifesto for
decades now if anything this report
seems to show that the movement is
becoming more widespread and more
organized over time you know it is
really a brilliant use of the English
language that he just starts this
paragraph with the statement none of
this is secret information it just
implies it just insinuates that this
could be or should be secret information
if I say to you right now the Japanese
government is planning to restart and
expand its nuclear reactors none of this
is secret information without my telling
you it's a bad thing or a dangerous
thing already it's somehow establishes
this tone yeah some of the workshops got
into the nitty-gritty of direct action
one well-known activist mapped out a
strategy by which college kids opposed
to health research on animals could
trick the university into banning
students from a building used for animal
testing then he told them how to enflame
the story to make it into something the
media would pick up and pressure the
university to respond to um a very
famous political figure here in Canada
who was one of my university professors
Bob Rae who is still kicking around in
Canadian politics Bob Rae used to always
say compare it to the alternative
actually I don't even feel like quake is
such a corny line but his line was don't
compare me to the Almighty compare me to
the alternative he said that a lot
I'm guessing still in the halls of
Parliament he uses that line all the
time was one of his favorite catch
phrases this criticism although left
vague and indirect what are you
comparing vegans to you may feel that
these are unethical tactics
you may feel they're unethical even
relative to other movements that are on
university campuses I think if you take
a look it's not so bad on the spectrum
of forms of political activism that are
ongoing in 2015 to use a fairly anodyne
example there were communists on my
campus at the University of Toronto this
was around 1999 and I remember they
broke onto the roof of a building on
campus was an historical building I
think was over one years old that
building and they repainted part of the
roof with the Communist flag so a red
flag with a hammer and sickle that sort
of thing
um so you know this is vandalism I'd may
be harming a building of some historical
significance it's also endorsing an
ideology that has killed millions of
people and you know there was actually
tolerance for it the university did not
kind of crack down on these communists
which is an interesting contrast to some
other extreme movements and some other
political symbols that might get painted
on a wall
um you know activists aren't perfect and
a lot of methods of activism you know
step on people's toes and causing
conveniences and disruptions but it's
important to compare them to the
alternatives but come on here apparently
from the perspective of the cattle
ranching industry using completely legal
methods to draw attention to animal
vivisection on University campus
he's shocking if a university is not a
place where philosophical and ethical
questions can be debated what is that
debate in Canada is not gonna happen at
City Hall it could and it should it
should be that at City Hall the
equivalent to Socrates is putting on his
robe and standing up in front of the
crowd and debating these kinds of issues
doesn't happen so universities
inevitably become places where some of
these issues get contested at least in
Western culture at least in Canadian
culture another encouraged activists to
look at every action as a stepping stone
to scale back their initial demands to
something acceptable and then build on
each small victory toward the end goal
one example would be to campaign for the
end of battery cages in poultry
operations on your university then push
to end them in your state and eventually
end them in the United States his means
of obtaining those small steps involves
activists gathering video evidence that
could be viewed as animal cruelty could
be this strategy really hit home to me
as I scan through the report as we've
had a few fresh examples of its success
hitting the news wires first came the
announcement that McDonald's was going
to gradually switch to free-range eggs
over the next decade starting with five
percent of its supply last month
according to Silva Charlevoix of the
University of Guelph food Institute
McDonald's was a hundred and twelve
twenty million eggs a year in Canada
alone that requires the services of 3.2
million egg-laying hens that must be
pulled from cages over the next decade
to satisfy this one customer he makes
excellent use of the English language
here this requires the services of 3.2
million hands that would be pulled from
their cages
he doesn't just make this sound like an
inconvenience but as if we the vegans
would be harming these birds we would be
disturbing them in their restful
slumbers in their cages by pulling them
from their cages because of the high
ethical standards of the McDonald's
Corporation what what a tragedy what a
terrible thing just to satisfy this one
customer because the only question are
is the of the scruples of this one
customer not of the 3.2 million hens
that are providing services in cages
that they do not want to be pulled from
very well written paragraph think about
as a challenge as a creative writer how
difficult it is to make that sound
convincing or reasonable and he does it
excellent excellent job very
well-written
slowly over time enough of the public
has been encouraged to believe battery
cages are bad that a major buyer is now
forced to tell its suppliers to switch
it means higher costs which in Canada
will certainly be passed on but we can
only imagine that McDonald's factored
that into its decision so this is the
cattle ranching industry magazine
complaining that McDonald's has too high
an ethical standard that there are two
self-sacrifice oh what a what a strange
vision of the world this article
presents the problem is the McDonald's
cares too much about the attitudes of
ethical animal rights activists and they
just don't care enough about profits and
prices the same company has the cattle
industry ramping up to raise fully
sustainable beef although the exact
details of what that means are still to
be determined
this too is in response to public
pressure much of it traced back to the
actions of activists in September the
animal Legal Defense Fund released a
video taken at at Ison plant in Texas
and filed complaints with the USDA for
inhumane animal handling practices and
food safety violations then asked the
Attorney General Delaware to investigate
Tyson Foods for similar violations this
is brilliantly written he's not
suggesting that any of these people are
not guilty he's not suggesting there
isn't he's not suggesting that this
Factory in Texas where animals are
slaughtered is not guilty of inhumane
practices and is not guilty of food
safety violations it's just a problem
that these accusations exist at all
you could almost hear them planning it
at the annual convention which by the
way had a whole section on dealing with
government law and politics these
stories are so frequent now we sometimes
grow numb to them especially when they
hit other sectors or another country but
activists don't think that way they are
happy with the long view every little
success counts meanwhile livestock
producers are kept busy devising welfare
plans environmental farm policies codes
of practice best management practices to
show they do deal with their animals
humanely but we know it will never be
enough if this report from the Alliance
says anything is that the activists end
goal is the elimination of the livestock
industry maybe we need to start asking
what is our hidden to strategy